README.md, before:

# Veilid Terraform Linode

Linode doesn't have a free tier, but it's still very cheap compared to the big 3 (AWS/GCP/Azure), so if you wanna run some veilid nodes on the cheap in the lesser cloud, you've come to the right place!

The nanodes will cost you about $5/month.

## Setting up the node(s)

1. If you don't have an account with [Linode](https://www.linode.com/), then sign up for that.

2. Get an API token to authenticate during terraform runs. This can be generated at https://cloud.linode.com/profile/tokens. Use the example in `.env.example` and rename it to `.env`, add in your token and then run `source .env`.

3. Fill in the value for your SSH key (if you want to be able to SSH in and poke around. If you don't, then just skip this part) in `setup-veilid.yaml`.

> If you want to use a separate SSH key, then generate one in this folder like `ssh-keygen -t ed25519 -o -a 100 -f veilid-key`. Then, make sure to update `setup-veilid.yaml` with the key contents.

4. Now you should be able to run `terraform init && terraform apply`.

You should see the IP address in the output

```sh
Outputs:

public_ip = [
  "172.232.139.79",
]
```

5. If you added an SSH key to use, you can now access the node(s) and see how veilid is running via

```sh
ssh -i PATH_TO_SSH_KEY veilid@IP_ADDRESS_FROM_OUTPUT
```

Commit message:

add note about scopes for linode token

README.md, after:

# Veilid Terraform Linode

Linode doesn't have a free tier, but it's still very cheap compared to the big 3 (AWS/GCP/Azure), so if you wanna run some veilid nodes on the cheap in the lesser cloud, you've come to the right place!

The nanodes will cost you about $5/month.

## Setting up the node(s)

1. If you don't have an account with [Linode](https://www.linode.com/), then sign up for that.

2. Get an API token to authenticate during terraform runs. This can be generated at https://cloud.linode.com/profile/tokens. Use the example in `.env.example` and rename it to `.env`, add in your token and then run `source .env`.

Make sure the token has Read Only scope for Events and Read/Write scope for Linodes (see screenshot below).

![linode token scopes](linode_token_scopes.png)

3. Fill in the value for your SSH key (if you want to be able to SSH in and poke around. If you don't, then just skip this part) in `setup-veilid.yaml`.

> If you want to use a separate SSH key, then generate one in this folder like `ssh-keygen -t ed25519 -o -a 100 -f veilid-key`. Then, make sure to update `setup-veilid.yaml` with the key contents.

4. Now you should be able to run `terraform init && terraform apply`.

You should see the IP address in the output

```sh
Outputs:

public_ip = [
  "172.232.139.79",
]
```

5. If you added an SSH key to use, you can now access the node(s) and see how veilid is running via

```sh
ssh -i PATH_TO_SSH_KEY veilid@IP_ADDRESS_FROM_OUTPUT
```
